README.md, before:

# My Terraform (AWS/Azure) best practices

This repository contains terraform code snippets that i reuse from time to time when a client who wants their
 cloud environment to be managed. 

Test secure **Azure** provisioning using **Terraform**,
utilising a [Remote Backend](https://www.terraform.io/docs/backends/types/azurerm.html) and a
[Key Vault](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/services/key-vault/) in Azure.

> Terraform enables you to safely and predictably create, change, and improve infrastructure.

## Preparation

Before you can securely use Terraform with Azure, you will need to action the following steps:

### Install Azure Dependencies / Log in to Azure

1. [Install the Azure PowerShell module](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/azure/install-az-ps).
1. Ensure you are logged in to Azure (eg. `Connect-AzAccount`)

### Configure Azure for Secure Terraform Access

1. Open `azure-scripts\ConfigureAzureForSecureTerraformAccess.ps1` and update the `$adminUserDisplayName` variable to
match your Admin User Display Name (eg. `Martin Chamambo`).
1. Run `azure-scripts\ConfigureAzureForSecureTerraformAccess.ps1`

The `ConfigureAzureForSecureTerraformAccess.ps1` script does the following:

1. Creates an Azure Service Principle for Terraform.
1. Creates a new Resource Group.
1. Creates a new Storage Account.
1. Creates a new Storage Container.
1. Creates a new Key Vault.
1. Configures Key Vault Access Policies.
1. Creates Key Vault Secrets for these sensitive Terraform login details:
     - ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID
     - ARM_CLIENT_ID
     - ARM_CLIENT_SECRET
     - ARM_TENANT_ID
     - ARM_ACCESS_KEY

### Load Azure Key Vault secrets into Terraform environment variables

Now that Azure has been configured for secure Terraform access, the Key Vault secrets need to be loaded into
environment variables, but only for the current PowerShell session.

1. Run `azure-scripts\LoadAzureTerraformSecretsToEnvVars.ps1`

### Install Terraform

Either [download Terraform and add to your path](https://learn.hashicorp.com/terraform/getting-started/install.html)
, or use the Chocolatey method below:

1. [Install Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/docs/installation)
1. Install Terraform: `choco install terraform`

## Provisioning

Now that Terraform is installed, the secure remote backend can be utilised whilst provisioning an Azure Resource Group and a Virtual Network:

1. Navigate to the `azure-examples\remote-backend\` folder.
1. Open `main.tf` and ensure you have updated the `storage_account_name` variable in the `backend` code block, to the new Storage Account Name created by the `ConfigureAzureForSecureTerraformAccess.ps1` script.
1. Initialise the Remote Backend and download plugins: `terraform init`
1. Create an execution plan (see planned changes): `terraform plan`
1. Apply the Terraform configuration: `terraform apply`
1. Enter `yes` to confirm the planned actions.

## Cleanup

You should now have a new Azure Resource Group (eg: `backend-test-rg`) with a Virtual Network (eg: `test-vnet`).
To cleanup these Azure resources, you can also use Terraform to destroy what it created.

1. If this is a new PowerShell session, you will have to run `scripts\LoadAzureTerraformSecretsToEnvVars.ps1` again
to reload the environment variables needed to Terraform to access Azure.
1. Navigate to the `azure-examples\remote-backend\` folder.
1. Remove the previously created Azure resources: `terraform destroy`
1. Enter `yes` to confirm the planned actions.

Commit message:

refactoring the azure secure script to store remote state on an azure blob container using access keys stored in azure keyvault

README.md, after:

# My Terraform (AWS/Azure) best practices

### This repo is inspired by Adam Rush's repo. I have refactored the code , removed deprecated code to accomodate terraform version changes.

    Author:  Adam Rush
    Blog:    https://adamrushuk.github.io
    GitHub:  https://github.com/adamrushuk
    Twitter: @adamrushuk

This repository contains terraform code snippets and best practices notes that i reuse from time to time when managing cloud environment. 

Test secure **Azure** provisioning using **Terraform**,
utilising a [Remote Backend](https://www.terraform.io/docs/backends/types/azurerm.html) and a
[Key Vault](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/services/key-vault/) in Azure.

> Terraform enables you to safely and predictably create, change, and improve infrastructure.

### Remote Backend State with Terraform and Azure Storage

Developing Infrastructure code as a single developer result in the tfstate file being created and 
maintained on the local development computer.  This is fine for a team of one, but having multiple versions of a state 
file can become an issue as more people join the team. I will show how to use a remote backend state on Azure Storage 
to host shared state files. 

How do we address potential issues when working in a team to deploy infrastructure as code? We use a centralized 
state file that everyone has access to.There are two steps to follow.  First, we need to create a storage account.  
Second, we configure the main.tf to use the remote state location.

NB - I will not be using Terraform to create the storage account.  Terraform could be 
used, it will work the same.  The remote state is stateful, meaning the data needs to persist through the lifecycle of 
the code.  We can’t simply delete and recreate the storage account without removing the state file.  
Because of that, in this example i will use powershell.

Terraform needs rights to access the storage account when running the terraform init, plan, and apply commands.  
We will use the storage account key for this.  We could add the key to the main.tf file, but that would go against best 
practices of keeping security string out of code. We will host the Storage Account key in Azure Key Vault. 



## Preparation

Before you can securely use Terraform with Azure, you will need to action the following steps:

### Install Azure Dependencies / Log in to Azure

1. [Install the Azure PowerShell module](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/azure/install-az-ps).
1. Ensure you are logged in to Azure (eg. `Connect-AzAccount`)

### Configure Azure for Secure Terraform Access

1. Open `azure-scripts\ConfigureAzureForSecureTerraformAccess.ps1` and update the `$adminUserDisplayName` variable to
match your Admin User Display Name (eg. `Martin Chamambo`).
1. Run `azure-scripts\ConfigureAzureForSecureTerraformAccess.ps1`

The `ConfigureAzureForSecureTerraformAccess.ps1` script does the following:

1. Creates an Azure Service Principle for Terraform.
1. Creates a new Resource Group.
1. Creates a new Storage Account.
1. Creates a new Storage Container.
1. Creates a new Key Vault.
1. Configures Key Vault Access Policies.
1. Creates Key Vault Secrets for these sensitive Terraform login details:
     - ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID
     - ARM_CLIENT_ID
     - ARM_CLIENT_SECRET
     - ARM_TENANT_ID
     - ARM_ACCESS_KEY

### Load Azure Key Vault secrets into Terraform environment variables

Now that Azure has been configured for secure Terraform access, the Key Vault secrets need to be loaded into
environment variables, but only for the current PowerShell session.

1. Run `azure-scripts\LoadAzureTerraformSecretsToEnvVars.ps1`

### Install Terraform

Either [download Terraform and add to your path](https://learn.hashicorp.com/terraform/getting-started/install.html)
, or use the Chocolatey method below:

1. [Install Chocolatey](https://chocolatey.org/docs/installation)
1. Install Terraform: `choco install terraform`

## Provisioning

Now that Terraform is installed, the secure remote backend can be utilised whilst provisioning an Azure Resource Group and a Virtual Network:

1. Navigate to the `azure-examples\remote-backend\` folder.
1. Open `main.tf` and ensure you have updated the `storage_account_name` variable in the `backend` code block, to the new Storage Account Name created by the `ConfigureAzureForSecureTerraformAccess.ps1` script.
1. Initialise the Remote Backend and download plugins: `terraform init`
1. Create an execution plan (see planned changes): `terraform plan`
1. Apply the Terraform configuration: `terraform apply`
1. Enter `yes` to confirm the planned actions.

## Cleanup

You should now have a new Azure Resource Group (eg: `backend-test-rg`) with a Virtual Network (eg: `test-vnet`).
To cleanup these Azure resources, you can also use Terraform to destroy what it created.

1. If this is a new PowerShell session, you will have to run `scripts\LoadAzureTerraformSecretsToEnvVars.ps1` again
to reload the environment variables needed to Terraform to access Azure.
1. Navigate to the `azure-examples\remote-backend\` folder.
1. Remove the previously created Azure resources: `terraform destroy`
1. Enter `yes` to confirm the planned actions.
